Basic LWC Interview Questions

What is LWC?
What are the benefits of using LWC?
What are the key features of LWC?
How does LWC compare to Aura components?
What is the LWC lifecycle?
What are the different types of LWC components?
What are the different ways to create LWC components?
What are the different ways to style LWC components?
What are the different ways to bind data to LWC components?
What are the different ways to handle events in LWC components?
Intermediate LWC Interview Questions

What is the difference between a template and a component?
What are slots and how do you use them in LWC?
What are trackable properties and how do you use them in LWC?
What are reactive expressions and how do you use them in LWC?
What are custom elements and how do you use them in LWC?
What is the Lightning Data Service and how do you use it in LWC?
What is the Lightning Locker and how does it work?
What are best practices for developing LWC components?
What are some common LWC mistakes to avoid?
What are some new features in LWC?
Advanced LWC Interview Questions

What is the difference between a shadow DOM and a regular DOM?
What is virtual DOM and how does it work in LWC?
What is state management in LWC and how do you implement it?
What is internationalization (i18n) and how do you implement it in LWC?
What is accessibility (a11y) and how do you implement it in LWC?
What are performance considerations when developing LWC components?
What are testing best practices for LWC components?
What are some common LWC performance bottlenecks?
What are some new features in the Lightning Data Service?
What are some new features in the Lightning Locker?
LWC Coding Interview Questions

Write an LWC component that displays a list of contacts.
Write an LWC component that allows users to create and edit contacts.
Write an LWC component that allows users to upload and download files.
Write an LWC component that allows users to filter and sort data.
Write an LWC component that allows users to interact with a Salesforce chart.
Write an LWC component that uses the Lightning Data Service to fetch data from Salesforce.
Write an LWC component that uses the Lightning Locker to protect sensitive data.
Write an LWC component that is accessible to users with disabilities.
Write an LWC component that is performant and scalable.
Write an LWC component that is unit tested.
Additional LWC Interview Questions

What are some of the challenges of developing LWC components?
How do you debug LWC components?
How do you test LWC components?
How do you deploy LWC components to production?
What are some of the best resources for learning more about LWC?
What are some of the ways to improve the performance of LWC components?
What are some of the ways to make LWC components more accessible?
What are some of the ways to secure LWC components?
What are some of the new features that you would like to see in LWC?
What are some of the ways that you are using LWC in your own Salesforce development?
Bonus LWC Interview Questions

What is the difference between an LWC template and an LWC component?
What is the Lightning Web Component Framework?
What is the Lightning Web Component Compiler?
What is the Lightning Web Components Tester?
What is the Lightning Web Component Developer Guide?
What are some of the benefits of using the Lightning Web Component Lifecycle Hooks?
What are some of the best practices for using the Lightning Web Component Data Binding API?
What are some of the best practices for using the Lightning